Light
Amplification by
Stimulated
Emissions of
Radiation

-----------------------

Lasers can be monochromatic - use only one color / wavelength. Unlike light bulbs.

Lasers produce Coherence - coherrant light - in phase and polorized in same direction.
Meaning all the photons can focus all their energies together on a very small target area.
This means a laser can produce high power output over long distances.

How a Laser works?

1: Stimulated Absorption
   Electrons live in Probality Density Clouds, they have wave-like behaviour, the orbitals
   represent the Average Distance they live from the Neuleus.
   Electrons are usually found in a low energy State, It minimises energy at this state, easier to live.
   Electrons can be excited by some sort of external means.
   The Pump is a a photon of light that can sacrifice itself by pushing an Electron to an Excited Energy State.
   The photon must the exact amount of Energy needed to push the elctron to the Excited State.
   
2: Spontaneous Emissions
   After 100 nanoseconds the Electron will fall as it is unstable.   
   When falling the electron releases Photon equal in Energy to the difference of the Excited 
   and Ground State.


3: Stimulated Emission
   Some Elements allow for Metastable States, which allow for longer lifetime of the excited Electron.
   When the Excited Electron drops to the Metastable State, the differnce in energy is dissipated in Heat.
   When a Photon collides with the Electron in the Metastable State, as Photons like to be in pairs,
   the collision Produces an exact duplicute of the entering Photon, in Wavelength, Coherence, Direction
   and Polorization.
   An initial Spontaneous Photon Emission from an Electron is needed, that first Photon can then collide
   The Pumping photon has always a higher Energy Level than the Photon that is being lased.
   Meaning the wavelength of the Pumping photon is shorted than the lased photon.
   You need more Electons in the MetaStable(Excited) State then in the Ground State, 
   to cause the Avalanche.
   This creates a Population Inversion.

4: Laser Medium
   Laser Medium is Placed in a very short Cavity that has mirros on both sides.
   One side of the cavity is a Partial Mirror to allow the laser beam out. 

   with another Excited Electron.
   
